Dear Petruschka,

My name is Patrick Bucher. I'm 30 years old and live in Lucerne. I'm sending you
this message to introduce myself, and to give you some hints on what kind of
person you'll have to deal with in the _English for Engineers_ class. I'm
studying Information and Communications Technology in the third term in
Rotkreuz.

After going to primary school for the usual six years, I went to high school. I
quit after the three mandatory years in 2003 and started my apprenticeship in
Information Technology with a focus on application development. Having acquired
my Federal Certificate of Proficiency in 2007, I stayed at my company, where I
worked part-time and attended Technical College Preparatory School in Lucerne.
In spring 2008, I quit my job and found a more interesting position as a web
engineer in a company based in Lucerne. After finishing the College Preparatory
School in 2009, I started studying Information and Communications Technology at
the University of Applied Sciences in Horw.

Unfortunately, my motivation and interest in IT started to fade during that
time, so I decided to quit both my job and my studies to try out something
totally different. I went to high school again (actually to the MSE --
"Maturitätsschule für Erwachsene" -- in Reussbühl) for a nine-month course
called "Passerelle". There I attained a diploma that allows me to study at Swiss
Universities. I got increasingly interested in languages and literature and
decided to study German and Slavonic literature and languages at the University
of Fribourg. This was an interesting experience for me, but I soon started to
miss programming, so I decided to pursue languages and literature only as a
hobby and started working full time in IT again in my former position. I stayed
there for a couple of years, but felt stuck in my job as a web engineer. I
found out that the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences was introducing new
major studies, and I really got interested in the fields data science and data
engineering. I quit my job in summer 2016 and started studying full-time in
Rotkreuz. During my first semester, I realized that studying full-time did leave
a lot of space, and I also wanted to get back to work again -- to gain more
experience and earn some money. A former co-worker of mine introduced me to his
boss, and soon he hired me as a second level supporter and software developer at
his startup company in Lucerne.

I spent a lot of time in different schools, and in some of them, I took English
language classes. I earned the First Certificate in English in 2008. Since then,
I only studied English infrequently and unsystematically. Fortunately, I was
able to use and improve my English skills at my last job, where I had to deal
with people from both the US and the UK a lot. I enjoy reading books written in
English, especially dystopian novels such as Orwell's _1984_, Huxley's _Brave
New World_, Bradbury's _Fahrenheit 451_, Burgess' _Clockwork Orange_ -- but also
the nonfiction writing of H. L. Mencken and Paul Graham's essays. I didn't
build up the vocabulary yet for reading older literature and still struggle with
some books I wanted to read for a long time (Thoreau's _Walden_ and Poe's
stories, for example).

For the _English for Engineers_ course, I hope to improve my writing skills. I'm
able to get a message across, but still feel very insecure when writing, and
after re-reading my texts after a while, I often stumble upon clumsy phrasing.
I'd really appreciate to get feedback on my writing in respect to style, grammar
and vocabulary used. Reading technical material is a minor issue, because I read
technical texts on a daily basis. The vocabulary subjects to be covered are all
of equal importance to me, more or less, because I mostly need to close gaps in
various areas, rather than discovering entirely new domains.

This term feels like a gap semester to me, because I switched from the full-time
model to the part-time model. I am more advanced in my studies then the
part-time students, but I cannot stick to the schedule of the full-time
students, because I work from Monday to Wednesday. On Thursdays and Fridays, I'm
doing the product development project in Horw in the mornings and the data base
course in Rotkreuz in the afternoons. Furthermore, I have a programming and a
mathematics class on Tuesday and Thursday evening, respectively. This schedule
leaves little time for my two main private projects: improving my Russian by
doing translation exercises and learning the functional programming language
Common Lisp.

I'm looking forward to pursue my studies more systematically in the upcoming
terms. I'm especially interested in programming languages and paradigms,
Unix-like operating systems (especially Linux) and data analysis, and I hope
I'll be able to attend a lot of courses in the areas mentioned. I'm also looking
forward to improve my English to become more confident in my writing skills.

I hope having provided all the information you need, and am looking forward to
study in your class.

Kind regards,

Patrick Bucher
